Add documentation for config-validator module (#18)
ChauffeurPrive/nestor-api: validator/docs/schemas.md

# Configuration Validator

This module contains the logic needed to validate deployment files with a defined schema by Nestor.

The deployment files define applications or projects.

## Application Configuration

In each file you will define the application that you want to deploy, there are few fields which are required to setup a new application.

This is a basic configuration application with the minimum required fields.

```yaml

> app: my-application   # Application's name
> is_enabled: false     # Is application deployment enabled
> git: git@microservice_repo # Git repository URL
> variables:            # Environment variables

Reviewer: I would try to align the comments (same for all comments)
```suggestion
app: my-application        # Application's name
is_enabled: false          # Is application deployment enabled
git: git@microservice_repo # Git repository URL
variables:                 # Environment variables
```

Reviewer: Also, you sometimes end up with a lot of information in some of the comments (not especially here but in the other examples too).
What do you think of using a table describing what is expected and then having the example ? 🙂

  app:
    APP_VAR1: application_variable_1
  ope:
    OPE_VAR1: ope_variable_1
```

> To customize your application deployment, there are other sections supported. Check the following sections.

Reviewer: I am not sure if it is clearer, what do you tink ?
```suggestion
To further customize the deployment of your application, you can add the following sections to the configuration files : 
```

### Processes

Define processes of a project. A project can contain multiple processes such as workers, web processes and more.
The structure to define a process is the following:

```yaml
processes:

>   - name: process-name  # Process name, STRING - Required

Reviewer 2: I believe that we have a limit on the process name length, it could be useful to document it here

>   - name: process-name  # Process name, STRING - Required
>     is_cronjob: false   # Defining a simple process, BOOLEAN - Required
>     start_command: npm start  # Executed command when the pod is started. STRING - Required
>   - name: cronjob-name  # Process name - Required
>     is_cronjob: true    # Defining a scheduled process (cronjob) - Required
>     start_command: npm run worker # Executed command when the pod is started - Required

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Defining a simple process
  - name: process-name  # STRING - Required
    is_cronjob: false  # BOOLEAN - Required
    start_command: npm start  # Executed command when the pod is started. STRING - Required
# Defining a scheduled process
    - name: cronjob-name
    is_cronjob: true
    start_command: npm run worker
```

```

### Scales
When you deploy an application in a Kubernetes environment, you define how many replicas you would like to run. 
Each replica represents a Kubernetes POD that encapsulates your application container. 
And also you can increase, or reduce the number of replicas in the given limit.

```yaml
scales:
  my-process:         # Process to scale
    min-replicas: 1   # Minimal number of pods, INTEGER - Required
    max-replicas: 10  # Minimal number of pos, INTEGER - Required

>     targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: # Percentage of CPU which will trigger a horizontal scaling when it is exceeded, INTEGER, 0 <= x <= 100 - Required

Reviewer: Is it possible to rename it or is this a fixed name ?
```suggestion
    targetCpuUtilizationPercentage: # Percentage of CPU which will trigger a horizontal scaling when it is exceeded, INTEGER, 0 <= x <= 100 - Required
```

Reviewer: Also, add a value before the comment to make the block a valid yaml (e.g. 95)

Author: I think it would be a good time if we are going to keep the naming for acronyms in variables for example: HTML vs Html, CPU vs Cpu, and so on. In my opinion I like better to keep the acronyms in uppercase as long as they are not at the beginning of the variable definition.

  another-process: ...
```

> ### Crons

Reviewer 2: What do you think about putting this section right after `processes`? Since we already talk about cron in the processes part

Crons are tasks that run at a specific time or interval. You can use this type of features to automate tasks, commonly as: reporting, backups, maintenance, emails and so on.

> You can define the crons information with the following structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define the crons configuration with the following structure.
```

```yaml
crons:
  my-cronjob: # Cronjob to define, it must be the same name as the cronjob defined in processes
    concurrency_policy: 'Forbid' # Allow, Forbid or Replace concurrency of cronjobs, STRING - Required. [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/automated-tasks-with-cron-jobs/#concurrency-policy)
    schedule: '* * * * *' # STRING - Required
    suspend:              # BOOLEAN
  another-resource: ...
```

### Resources
This structure defines the resources to be allocated for your application.

```yaml
resources:
  my-resource:  # Name of the resource to define
    limit:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    limits:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    request:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    requests:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
  another-resource: ...
```

> ### TemplateVars

Reviewer 2: I am not sure what these variables are used for, I am wondering if we should not omit them first, to keep it simple and see afterwards if we need them?

Author: These variables from my understanding are used to override default values for Kubernetes. I will add the explanation in the introductory paragraph so it's clearer 👍

Define variables used in configuration templates when building the kubernetes configuration before deployment. Here are the available variables:

_Note_: All the variables should be prefixed by `tpl`.

```yaml
templateVars:         # Variables used in conf templates
  tplCriticity:       # Define if the app is on the critical path, STRING - high, low, none
  tplPublicServices:  # Define if the application web is public accessible or not, BOOLEAN
  tplExpandedTimeout: # Define the timeout on the ingress controller, STRING
  tplSessionAffinity: # Activate or deactivate session affinity on ingress controller, BOOLEAN
  tplTerminationGracePeriod: # Define POD termination grace period, INTEGER
  tplCanary: # Define name for canary, STRING
```

### Dependencies

> The list of dependencies used by your project.

Reviewer 2: Even as a Kapten developer, I am not sure what this list is used for. We should either remove it, if there is no use, or dig a bit more to find out why we need this and document it more.

> The list of dependencies used by your project.

Reviewer: What are dependencies exactly ? some other apps defined in the folder ?

```yaml
dependencies:
  - first-dependency
  - second-dependency

>   ...

Reviewer: I would suggest to use a comment for this kind of "etc" statement to keep the `yaml` valid when copy/paste
```suggestion
  # ...
```

```

### Public

> Determines if the project is publicly available or not 

Reviewer 2: Public how? I guess there is some Ingress logic behind this, how is it linked to a domain name? I think we should detail this part

```yaml
public: true 
```

### Public Aliases
Define aliases for public access.

```yaml

> public_aliases:

Reviewer 2: Same here, I have no clue how it works, in combination with `public` rule above

Reviewer 2: What about these?

  - www # STRING
  - api # STRING
  ...
...
```

### Probes

> If you need more documentation on what probes are, visit the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need more documentation on what probes are, visit the [official kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).
```

> If you need more documentation on what probes are, visit the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).

Reviewer 2: 👍 Good idea! 
Maybe put it in italic and at the end of the section?

> In this section, you can define some probes Kubernetes for specific containers. Here is the only available probe for the moment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define some Kubernetes' probes for each process.
```
I we cannot define probes for other processes than web, maybe change it to something like   `You can define probes for the web process. It is currently not possible to define probes for other processes.`

```yaml
probes:
  web:
    liveness:
      delay: 5  # NUMBER
      path: /   # STRING
```

### Variables

> Environment variables used in the application.

Reviewer: It could be good to specify what are the categories `app`/`ope`/... 
Or maybe this should rather be addressed in nestor-api's doc 🤷 
What do you think ?

Author: Done 👍

```yaml
variables:
  app: # Required
    APP_VAR1: application_variable_1
  ope: # Required
    OPE_VAR1: ope_variable_1

>   integration: # The unique env vars (which won't be replaced be staging env vars) belonging to the integration, Optional

Reviewer: I was not aware of this mechanism 🤔 
Does this mean that it protects the variables in the replicas from being removed/overridden when staging is copied ?

Author: It was supported before but it was prone to errors from the user part. I will remove it and just keep ope and env

>   integration: # The unique env vars (which won't be replaced be staging env vars) belonging to the integration, Optional

Reviewer 2: I am not sure we should keep this feature? Seems a bit weird to me, and having a configuration per environment is better, imo, what do you think?

Author: Removed! 👍

In this section you can define variables used in configuration templates when building the kubernetes configuration before deployment. Here are the available variables:

**_Note_**: All the variables should be prefixed by `tpl`. To avoid colliding with the default values for your Kubernetes Namespace.

```yaml
templateVars:         # Variables used in conf templates
  tplCriticity:       # Define if the app is on the critical path, STRING - high, low, none
  tplPublicServices:  # Define if the application web is public accessible or not, BOOLEAN
  tplExpandedTimeout: # Define the timeout on the ingress controller, STRING
  tplSessionAffinity: # Activate or deactivate session affinity on ingress controller, BOOLEAN
  tplTerminationGracePeriod: # Define POD termination grace period, INTEGER
  tplCanary:          # Define name for canary, STRING
```

> ### Dependencies

Reviewer 2: I am not sure this part is useful and if we keep it, it should not be under Kubernetes, I think

This section can be used when your application depends or makes use of other applications. In this section you can specify the list dependencies used by your project. 

```yaml
dependencies:
  - api-v1
  - voice-service
  - payment-service
  # .. and more
  # if your application does not have dependencies, you can omit this section
```

### Public
Determines if the project is publicly available for other services in your kubernetes namespace, this will allow internal interaction between applications.

```yaml
public: true 
```

### Public Aliases

> In this section allows at pod-level to override the hostname resolution when DNS and other options are not applicable. This is a feature of Kubernetes, that allows to reach your application with a more friendly name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion 
This section allows at pod-level to override the hostname resolution when DNS and other options are not applicable. This is a feature of Kubernetes, that allows to reach your application with a more friendly name.
```

> You can define an alias for your application to facilitate public access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can define an alias for your application to ease public access.
```

> If you need further documentation of how DNS and the network layer works in Kubernets. We recommend you to read [the official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you need further documentation about how DNS and the network layer works in Kubernetes. We recommend you to read [the official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/)
```

```yaml
public_aliases:
  - www # STRING
  - api # STRING
```

### Probes

In this section, you can define some Kubernetes' probes for the web process. It is currently not possible to define probes for other processes.

```yaml
probes:
  web:
    liveness:
      delay: 20         # NUMBER
      path: /heartbeat  # STRING
```

**_Note_**: If you need more documentation on what probes are and their usage, visit the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).

### Variables
There are two categories of environment variables that you can add to your application: `ope` and `app`. 

The idea is to separate concerns between the variables that your application needs.

- `ope`: These are used to specify operational values such as URLs, certificates, auth public keys, connection strings, integration with third party services and other services information used by your app.

> - `app`: These are the variables used internally for adding logic to the application, such as: fixed values, timeouts, default values, feature flags, ids, and more.

Reviewer 2: 👍

# Configuration Validator

This module contains the logic needed to validate deployment files with a defined schema by Nestor.

The deployment files define applications or projects.

## Application Configuration

> In each file you will define the application that you want to deploy, few fields are required to setup a new application. There are many supported values which are optional that could be useful for your deployment. You can read more about them in the following sections and the schemas definition.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In each file you will define the application that you want to deploy, few fields are required to setup a new application. There are many optional supported values that could be useful for your deployment. You can read more about them in the following sections and the schemas definition.
```

#### Application Example 
This is how a basic configuration for an application looks like, this example contains the minimum required fields.

```yaml
app: my-application         # Application's name
is_enabled: false           # Is the application deployment enabled
git: git@microservice_repo  # Git repository URL
variables:                  # Environment variables
  app:                      
    APP_VAR1: application_variable_1
  ope:
    OPE_VAR1: ope_variable_1
```

To further customize the deployment of your application, you can add the following sections to the configuration file.

## Table of Contents
1. [Generic Configuration](#generic-configuration)
2. [Kubernetes Configuration](#kubernetes-configuration)

## Generic Configuration

### Processes

A project can contain multiple processes such as workers, web processes and more.

> The structure to define a process is the following one:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
# Defining a simple process
processes:
  - name: process-name        # Process name - required - maxLength: 58
    is_cronjob: false         # Defining a simple process
    start_command: npm start  # Command executed when the pod is started

> # Defining a scheduled process

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    # Defining a scheduled process
```

  - name: cronjob-name
    is_cronjob: true
    start_command: npm run worker
```

### Crons
Crons are tasks that run at a specific time or interval.
You can use them to automate tasks, commonly as: reporting, backups, maintenance, emails and more.

> You can define the crons configuration with the following structure.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```yaml
crons:
  my-cronjob: # Cronjob to define 
              # it must be the same name as defined in processes
    concurrency_policy: 'Forbid' # Allow, Forbid or Replace concurrency of cronjobs, STRING - Required. 
    schedule: '* * * * *' # STRING - Required
    suspend: false        # BOOLEAN
```

**_Note_**: You can read more about how to write a cron, the different concurrency policies and more features in the [official documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/automated-tasks-with-cron-jobs/#writing-a-cron-job-spec)

> ### Dependencies

Reviewer 2: I strongly feel that there is no need for this section

Author: Removing it, I didn't find any usage in kubernetes or our current approach rather than just a list of applications

```yaml
dependencies:
  - api-v1
  - voice-service
  - payment-service
  # .. and more
  # if your application does not have dependencies, you can omit this section
```

## Kubernetes Configuration 

### Scales
When you deploy an application in a Kubernetes environment, you define how many replicas you would like to run. 
Each replica represents a Kubernetes Pod that encapsulates your application container. 
You can also increase, or reduce the number of replicas in the given limit.

```yaml
scales:
  my-process:         # Process to scale
    min-replicas: 1   # Minimal number of pods, INTEGER - Required
    max-replicas: 10  # Minimal number of pods, INTEGER - Required
    targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 80 # Percentage of CPU which will trigger a horizontal scaling when it is exceeded, INTEGER, 0 <= x <= 100 - Required
  another-process: 
    min-replicas: 1
    max-replicas: 5
    targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 95
```

### Resources
This structure defines the resources to be allocated for your application.

```yaml
resources:

>   my-resource:  # Name of the resource to define

Reviewer 3: It should be the name or the process here, right?

>     limit:

Reviewer 3: I don't know what `limit` `limits` `request` `requests` keys stands for here, kubernetes things?

Author: For simplicity I kept only limits and requests, and yes they are kubernetes specifics. I will add the link to the correct documentation.

>       cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER

Reviewer 3: Why would it be a string for CPU? 🤔

Author: `'50'`, 50 both are valid according to the official doc 😮

# Configuration Validator

This module contains the logic needed to validate deployment files with a defined schema by Nestor.

The deployment files define applications or projects.

## Table of Contents
1. [Application Configuration](#applicationConfiguration)
2. [Kubernetes Configuration](#kubernetesConfiguration)

<a name="applicationConfiguration"></a>
## Application Configuration

In each file you will define the application that you want to deploy, few fields are required to setup a new application. There are many supported values which are optional that could be useful for your deployment. You can read more about them in the following sections and the schemas definition.

> <a name="applicationConfiguration"></a>

Reviewer: This tag a second time ? (it is also present on line 11)

git: git@microservice_repo  # Git repository URL
variables:                  # Environment variables
  app:                      
    APP_VAR1: application_variable_1
  ope:
    OPE_VAR1: ope_variable_1
```

To further customize the deployment of your application, you can add the following sections to the configuration files.

### Processes

A project can contain multiple processes such as workers, web processes and more.
The structure to define a process is the following one:

```yaml
# Defining a simple process
processes:
  - name: process-name        # Process name - required - maxLength: 58
    is_cronjob: false         # Defining a simple process
    start_command: npm start  # Command executed when the pod is started
# Defining a scheduled process
  - name: cronjob-name
  is_cronjob: true
  start_command: npm run worker
```

### Crons
Crons are tasks that run at a specific time or interval.
You can use them to automate tasks, commonly as: reporting, backups, maintenance, emails and more.

You can define the crons configuration with the following structure.

```yaml
crons:
  my-cronjob: # Cronjob to define, it must be the same name as the cronjob defined in processes

>     concurrency_policy: 'Forbid' # Allow, Forbid or Replace concurrency of cronjobs, STRING - Required. [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/job/automated-tasks-with-cron-jobs/#concurrency-policy)

Reviewer: This line is really long, put the link after the block as a note to keep the comments simple.
And align the other comments together 🙂

    schedule: '* * * * *' # STRING - Required
    suspend:              # BOOLEAN
  another-resource:
    schedule: '* * * * *'
    # etc
```

<a name="kubernetesConfiguration"></a>
## Kubernetes Configuration 

### Scales
When you deploy an application in a Kubernetes environment, you define how many replicas you would like to run. 
Each replica represents a Kubernetes Pod that encapsulates your application container. 

> And also you can increase, or reduce the number of replicas in the given limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also increase, or reduce the number of replicas in the given limit.
```

  another-process: 
    min-replicas: 1
    max-replicas: 5
    targetCPUUtilizationPercentage: 95
```

### Resources
This structure defines the resources to be allocated for your application.

```yaml
resources:
  my-resource:  # Name of the resource to define
    limit:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    limits:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    request:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
    requests:
      cpu:      # STRING / NUMBER
      memory:   # STRING
  another-resource: ...
```

### TemplateVars

Kubernetes has service settings to allow to expose an application running on a set of Pods as a network service. The idea is that Kubernetes handles the network layer to provide IP addresses to your Pods and a single DNS name for a set of Pods and can load-balance across them. You can read more in [the official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/).

In this section you can define variables used in configuration templates when building the kubernetes configuration before deployment. Here are the available variables:

> **_Note_**: All the variables should be prefixed by `tpl`. To avoid colliding with the 

Reviewer: `with the ...` ? 🙂

```yaml
templateVars:         # Variables used in conf templates
  tplCriticity:       # Define if the app is on the critical path, STRING - high, low, none
  tplPublicServices:  # Define if the application web is public accessible or not, BOOLEAN
  tplExpandedTimeout: # Define the timeout on the ingress controller, STRING
  tplSessionAffinity: # Activate or deactivate session affinity on ingress controller, BOOLEAN
  tplTerminationGracePeriod: # Define POD termination grace period, INTEGER
  tplCanary:          # Define name for canary, STRING
```

### Dependencies

> This section can be used when your application depends or makes use of another applications. In this section you can specify the list dependencies used by your project. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section can be used when your application depends or makes use of other applications. In this section you can specify the list dependencies used by your project. 
```

```yaml
public_aliases:
  - www # STRING
  - api # STRING
```

### Probes

In this section, you can define some Kubernetes' probes for the web process. It is currently not possible to define probes for other processes.

```yaml
probes:
  web:
    liveness:
      delay: 20         # NUMBER
      path: /heartbeat  # STRING
```

**_Note_**: If you need more documentation on what probes are and their usage, visit the [official Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/pod-lifecycle/#container-probes).

### Variables
There are two categories of environment variables that you can add to your application: `ope` and `app`. 

The idea is to separate concerns between the variables that your application needs.

- `ope`: These are used to specify operational values such as URLs, certificates, auth public keys, connection strings, integration with third party services and other services information used by your app.
- `app`: These are the variables used internally for adding logic to the application, such as: fixed values, timeouts, default values, feature flags, ids, and more.

> Environment variables used in the application.

Reviewer: This sentence look weird (and alone 😢). Did you perhaps forget to remove it after writing the paragraph above ?
